---
id: 27
title: 100 Words
date: 2006-09-05T22:23:00+00:00
author: Danjones
layout: post
guid: http://goodevilgenius.org/wordpress/2006/09/05/100-words/
permalink: 100-words
pvc_views: 300
blogger_blog: goodevilgenius.blogspot.com
blogger_author: Dan Jones
blogger_permalink: /2006/09/100-words.html
jd_tweet_this: yes

---
I'm taking this really neat linguistics course this semester. It's called _Invented Languages: Klingon and Beyond_. It's all about constructed languages like Klingon, Vulcan, Esperanto, Ido, Elvish, etc.

Anyway, we just finished our first assignment. The assignment was this: Imagine that for some reason something happened to languages and only 100 Words were left. What do you think should be left?

So, I really liked this assignment, and decided to post my answer here. I hope you find it interesting.

Aside from a few noted exceptions, all the verbs are Latin, and everything else is English.

# 100 Words

## Nouns

1. person 
1. male
1. female 
1. parent 
1. child 
1. uncle 
1. nephew 
1. cousin 
1. friend
1. lover 
1. spouse 
1. enemy 
1. truth 
1. faith 
1. God 
1. Messiah מָשִׁיחַ (Hebrew: annointed one) 
1. spirit 
1. heaven 
1. earth 
1. hell 
1. word 
1. science 
1. art 
1. law 
1. plant 
1. animal
1. object 
1. machine 
1. way 
1. aloha (Hawaiian: love, compassion, mercy, hello, goodbye) 
1. time 
1. top 
1. bottom

## Verbs

1. amare (to love) 
1. contemnere (to hate) 
1. esse (to be) 
1. ducere (to calculate, reckon) 
1. vivere (to live) 
1. habitare (to dwell, reside) 
1. habere (to have, possess) 
1. dare (to give, offer, furnish) 
1. facere (to make, do, bring about, perform, experience, sacrifice, be of service)
1. cantare (to sing) 
1. videre (to see) 
1. ire (to go, progress) 
1. manere (to stay, remain) 
1. cogitare (to think) 
1. dicere (to speak) 
1. edere (to eat, consume, waste) 
1. bibere (to drink, quaff)
1. faulenzen (German: to laze about, idle) 
1. laborare (to work, toil) 
1. discere (to study) 
1. scire (to know, understand) 
1. feiern (German: to party, revel, celebrate) 
1. quaerere (to ask, enquire, seek, [sometimes] obtain) 
1. incipere (to begin, commence) 
1. finire (to end, conclude, bound, enclose, restrain)

## Adjectives/Adbverbs

1. zero 
1. one 
1. two 
1. three 
1. four 
1. red 
1. yellow
1. blue 
1. white 
1. black 
1. not 
1. very 
1. many 
1. few 
1. big 
1. small
1. good 
1. bad 
1. fast 
1. slow 
1. hard 
1. soft 
1. real 
1. fake
1. clean 
1. dirty 
1. light 
1. dark 

## Prepositions

1. in 
1. out 
1. through
1. over 
1. under

## Miscellaneous
                
1. please 
1. and 
1. or 
1. nor
1. yes 
1. no 
1. domo ど (Japanese: hello, thank you, beg your pardon, goodbye, etc.) 
1. sumimasen すみません (Japanese: excuse me, I'm sorry, thank you: expressing that one can not properly reciprocate or accomodate) 
1. hallelujah הַלְּלוּיָהּ (Hebrew: Praise the Lord)
                
I decided that if we had lost all but 100 words, we would quickly create new words based on the ones left, so I tried to pick words that could be easily combined to make new words (e.g. house could be habito-object, and door could be in-habito-object). I also tried to pick words that already had many meetings (hence, aloha and ど). Most of the rest of the words are simply words I think are very useful, or words important to me personally. I only have zero through four because I figured we could just switch to base-5, instead of base-10, since we could still easily count on our fingers with such a number system. I decided not to include aunt and niece because that can be female-uncle, and female-nephew. Likewise, parent, sibling, etc. can be distinguished by gender in the same manner.
