---
title: A Riot is the Language of the Unheard
date: 2020-06-01 11:01:34
tags: 
    - racism
    - police
    - race relations
    - riots
---
# "A Riot is the Language of the Unheard"

Like many people, I've been thinking a lot over the past few days about race and
law enforcement, and race relations in this country.

I grew up in a family where I was taught to respect others for who they are. My
parents never had to tell me that the respect I show others should not be
dependent on that person's race, sex, religion, or lifestyle. They taught me to
respect others, and showed me that that respect should apply to all.

I also didn't grow up with a lot of racism around me. I never experienced it
myself, and I don't recall, as a child, seeing others experience it. I think my
experience was somewhat unusual in that respect, but not as unusual as one might
think.

Looking back on my childhood, I realize that I didn't know that much about race.
I remember being very young, and thinking that there were two races: white and
black, and that everyone else was probably some mixture of the two. I eventually
learned more as my experience increased. But as I learned more about race, I
still knew very little about racism.

I think I was na√Øve in that regard. My impression of contemporary racism, as a
child, was that a lot of people of my grandparents' generation were racist. And
there were pockets of ignorant people, like the Klan, who were still racist
today. But other than that, I thought racism was part of our history.

This ignorance was part of my privilege of growing up white. Of course, as I
grew older, I realized that racism was still present. Racism still affected
people on a daily basis. But I still couldn't really appreciate it.

Nearly thirty years ago, when I was almost nine years old, Rodney King was
beaten by LAPD officers. This incident was filmed, and became public knowledge.
I don't actually remember it happening. I don't know if my parents intentionally
tried to shield my from it, or if it never came up in conversation when I was
paying attention to them. But I'm certain that black children, much younger than
I was, were aware of what happened.

I eventually learned about Rodney King. I was shocked and appalled when I did
learn. Like half of the country who learned about it, I couldn't believe that it
could happen. I say "half of the country" because the other half of the country
already knew that this kind of thing happened. They've seen it. They've seen
police intimidation and unnecessary force. For many of us, Rodney King was a
wake-up call, but for others of us who lived with this, it was yet another
incident.

Six and a half years ago, I married an amazing, intelligent, and beautiful
woman, whose father is black. Over time, I've heard from her about her
experiences with racism. She has seen it all her life. To me, it was an
exceptional and awful thing. To her, it was an everyday (but still awful) thing.

As I've learned more from her, I've come to realize a few things:

- There's no way that I can fully understand her experience.
- Even as I grew up and learned more, I was still woefully ignorant about how
    people are affected by their own race every single day.
- The only way for me, and people like me, to learn is to listen.

The thing is, I could've learned many of these lessons much sooner. I've had
plenty of black and brown friends and associates throughout my life. I've even
talked to some of them about their experiences with racism, but it had always
been somewhat superficial conversations. I had never really asked a black person
to tell me about how their race affected their life.

But now I have had those conversations with my wife. I can't possibly fully feel
what she has felt, but I understand a lot better. I can count on one hand the
number of times I've felt intimidated by a police officer (it's two, by the
way). Many black and brown people can't even count on one hand the number of
times in one month.

Mostly, I've been pretty overwhelmed by all of this.

![Bi-racial child looking out a window](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/80ILoKmg3zEp95CgNLJchOQRJx7R29i5u8niZFP76YvirN99tUGScUVLef9s69YEQCAUJZQw9xrLDBs6RDYvjzqSn9AFLmGWp47fBVOGJ_5ieOn3pxal-y0Qgcakg7Eoqrol582DItQ=w505-h673-no)

This is my son. He's handsome, and kind, and so smart, and a little rebellious.
He's also my only child who probably can't "pass for white". And so, he's also
the one I worry about the most. Right now, I can protect him. But twenty years
from now, he could be jogging one night, when someone sees those big, beautiful
curls, and he becomes the next Ahmaud Arbery.

![Post by Martin Luther King III: "As my father explained during his lifetime, a riot is the language of the unheard."](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/8Ddn1HYb0C4IXI--GVwIlO3oMaZoUa5dNitt2m1SbPD825rnaaDxeHPDOKDQfKQCqEge7bVjlFxuZJP-DWj88lRju-b5M9QIDWkzpI9PkXlVm5W166YM9CawgmtAQ8aep01SVybRUhU=w981-h673-no)

The title of my post is a quote by the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. I
included this because I've seen a lot of comments on social media from
well-intentioned white folks who are complaining about the rioting, and
referring to those that are causing property damage as "criminals", or as the
President has said, "thugs". It's hard to understand why someone might go from a
peaceful protest to damaging buildings.

But these people are mad. They've spent their lives being careful around police
officers, to try and prevent one of them from losing it, and hurting them.
They've seen the tape of Rodney King being beaten, but it's not history for
them. They have continued to see it for the last thirty years since that time.
And for most of them, nothing substantive has changed. And now, a black man
jogging is killed. And then another black man, while trying to enjoy his
bird-watching hobby, politely asks a woman to put a leash on her dog, as she's
supposed to do, and is threatened by her as she claims she will lie to the
police about him, and say he is threatening her life. She knows that saying that
he's African-American will result in a harsher response from the police.
Finally, a man is killed by police, and when they protest, the President calls
them thugs.

They are no longer being heard. George Floyd was not heard by the police as he
pled for them to let him breathe, and in his dying moments, cried out for his
mother. They are not being heard by the people who need to hear them: the
police, the mayors, the governors, and the President. They're scared that
they'll accidentally jaywalk and end up like George Floyd. What are they going
to do? They won't be heard, so they are making themselves heard in the only way
they can figure out how.

Property can be rebuilt, but lives cannot be restored.

![Post by Gandhi Mahal Restaurant regarding property damage during the riot](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/djTzCWhpqDzzNPoJhMaiSJRkAW_m3YHR2Urea3KJzcXmz5R1hLL3BoXy29gJ8bJmEv26_4Bo0XjblV44if59mFTF6SKKvagQiDWzB-YYcSQZ2GwyV0oFfo6WP-ppnWzWyGOQy6ZUl1c=w687-h673-no)

If anyone reading this wants to criticize the rioters who are burning down
police stations, I urge you, before you type that comment on a Facebook post,
call up a black or brown friend and talk to them. Let them be heard by someone.
